# IP Addresses

- Machines can talk to each other and exchange information. But how does they know which machine to communicate with?
- IP addresses can uniquely identify a machine on a network.


## Public IP

- Any device anywhere in the world can send a request directly to that IP address.
- When you open google.com, Your request goes to Google’s public IP. That server must be reachable from anywhere in the world.


## Private IP address

- A network that works only inside a limited area and is not directly reachable from the global internet is called Private network.
- Only devices inside that network can access each other. Outsiders cannot directly connect.
- At your home: Your laptop connects to WiFi, Your phone connects to WiFi, Your TV connects to WiFi, They all can communicate with each other but someone from another country cannot directly access your laptop?
- Improves security and IP conservation.

## NAT

## Problem statement

- IPV4 has limited global public IPS around 4.3 billion.
- But we have so many more devices. If we keep assigning every device a unique IP, we would soon run out of them.
- NAT allows Many devices to share one public IP address.
- If my home wifi has 10 devices connected to it, instead of assigning each device a unique public IP, NAT provides only one public IP to all 10 devices.

## How NAT works

- NAT (Network Address Translation) is a technique used in networking where a device (usually your router) changes private IP addresses inside your local network into a public IP address before sending traffic to the internet — and vice versa.
- Private networks cannot directly talk to the internet.
- Whenever a device tries to communicate with the internet, Router changes it's IP to a public IP and sends the request to internet. It also stores a mapping of which private IP requested which public resource.
